How hard is engineering academic pressure and work load at UConn Storrs?
Accepted into several schools for engineering and UConn stands out as one of the more selective. Heard that UConn engineering is rigorous, and am worried about potentially high academic pressure /workload, in comparison to other schools. I have a good GPA (3.9) but engineering is hard as rule and I have ADHD, so I’m actually considering another (less selective, smaller) state university that also has a good engineering program (although not as good as UConn), to increase the odds I can manage the workload. Thoughts? Cost would be only a bit lower at the other university as well. Thank you!

Thank you. I heard stories of it being easy rigorous, people having to retake classes, etc. I was also wondering if there is sufficient access to professors or if students are just a number throughout their time there? Thank you

UConn Alum 1983 - Any good engineering program worth its salt is going to be rigorous. As someone who wasn't the most focused engineering student (EE), I made it harder than I needed it to be. If you are in Engineering School, remember you are there to get a degree - the fun will come later. If you can take some courses over the summer to get some coursework out of the way, do that. It is not a race - whether you take 4 years or 6 years, you get the same degree.

Thanks for summer suggestion- I am considering that!

(2021) BME/ME
I think pretty much all schools have students that retake classes for some reason or another, it's definitely not a widespread problem that students have to retake classes here though. It depends on the class/major/professor but most professors will have office hours where they are happy to help you and teaching assistant office hours where you can spend more time going over practice problems and such

TY! Appreciate your feedback.

You can handle the workload. You are doing yourself a disservice by not choosing the program that will prepare you the most and offer the most opportunities. To be honest I think a lot of departments (especially CS but not rlly engineering) fall short in terms of rigor.

Thank you for your supportive words and thoughts on the school.

Engineering will always be tough, as it should be. But with dedication and perseverance, you’ll get through just fine. My personal recommendation, get yourself involved in undergraduate research early, by the beginning of your sophomore year.

I meant very rigorous, not easy, sorry!

UConn is a pretty good school for engineering. Tbh if you go to lecture and keep up with the course works you will be fine. AS LONG AS YOU DONT FALL BEHIND, the exams are somewhat easy. The first two years of college is light, but still do your best to not fail as class will get harder each semester. All majors are rigorous if you don’t study enough for it, and that’s a fact.

Thank you for your feedback. Appreciated!!

UConn has a special focus in teaching neurodiverse engineering students (including ADHD and dyslexia) so I think you would find the support there better than most other schools. They have federal grants to serve students and explore research projects that take advantage of neurodiversity as a strength. Contact the institution to ask about it if you want to know more.
https://neurodiversity.engineering.uconn.edu/

Thank you for this!!

I would recommend starting your engineering program at a UConn regional campus where your foundation classes will be much smaller sized. Professors are excellent, engaged and very accessible. It will set you up for success and likely save you a lot of money. There are free peer tutors available for nearly every class to assure you are staying on track. You would then transition to the main campus after 2 years or potentially sooner if you have AP or ECE credits.

Garbage advice. Hit the ground running at Storrs, then you’ll never have to deal with transferring, not having the classes you need offered, etc.
