Engineering Experiential Education

In Engineering disciplines, experiential education plays a crucial role in preparing students for the complexities of their chosen field. Experiential learning bridges this gap with traditional classroom learning by allowing students to engage in special projects, service-learning, internship and Co-op programs, and research opportunities that allow them to take on authentic engineering issues. Through this work, students gain practical, professional and creative skills and perspectives that supplement their engineering curriculum, and provide memorable experiences to enhance their personal development as well as their identity as engineers.

International Engineering Programs

The College of Engineering’s International Engineering Programs offers unparalleled experiences both on campus and abroad for students looking to become global engineers. Students can participate in international programming on campus through an enrichment program titled Engineers Around the World, which promotes discourse and engagement for all engineers interested in an educational experience abroad. Additionally, students with a specific language and culture focus can enroll in one of IEP’s 5-year, dual degree programs, where enrolled students earn two degrees simultaneously: a BSE or BS in their engineering discipline and a BA in French, German or Spanish. By combining the power of a strong engineering program and the immersion in a foreign language and culture (which includes a full academic-year abroad), the five-year, dual degree program prepares students for rewarding careers in a diverse array of engineering fields in a global context.

Learn More About International Engineering

Engineering Career Experiences and Industry Engagement

Engineering students have the opportunity to enhance their education through internships, Co-ops, and industry engagement. Internships offer students short-term, hands-on experience in real-world settings, allowing them to apply classroom knowledge and develop professional skills. Co-ops are typically longer (generally through an academic semester but can span an entire year) and have integrated benchmarks into the academic curriculum. These programs are vital for career development, as they enable students to build networks, gain insights into various engineering fields, and enhance their resumes. Industry engagement opportunities, such as project collaborations, site visits, and mentorship programs, further enrich students' learning experiences. By participating in these programs, students can make informed career choices, increase their employability, and transition smoothly from academia to the professional world.

Access Experiential Learning Resources

Engineering Learning Communities

Learning Communities at UConn allow students with similar majors and interests to live together in a residence hall and actively engage with the campus community. The Engineering House Learning Community (EHLC) is the primary program facilitated by the College of Engineering, but there are other related programs that offer similar living and learning experiences. Students in learning communities participate in:

One-credit seminar courses for first-year education & university assimilation

Service-learning and experiential courses for sophomores

Student leadership positions/programs within the communities

Social and cultural events

Study groups

Volunteer work in areas of interest

Pre-professional opportunities (i.e. internships and Co-ops)

Access to faculty, staff, and peer advisors

Guest speakers

Off-campus experiences and community/industry engagement

Learning Communities offer a fun way for students to experience UConn through a smaller, close-knit community. They place students on a path to make the most out of their time at UConn by creating a rich and integrated university experience by offering an open space to gain a better understanding of themselves and the world around them.

Explore the Engineering Learning Communities